Projekte
	
Beiersdorff GmbH
10/2024 - Heute	Sales Data Architecture - Custom App Migration
Sales Customer Architecture is a project aimed at providing an overview of sales data and structuring it effectively. 
The goal is to migrate an existing Microsoft Power Apps solution, which has reached its technical limits, to a custom web application built using state-of-the-art technology. The new solution will be developed with VueJS using Typescript, Pinia, and Bootstrap, and will be hosted on the Azure Cloud platform. 
The objective is not just to facilitate the migration but also to create an extendable product that can evolve and scale with future requirements. 
This initiative is focused on transforming the way sales data is managed, from structuring to advanced visualization, utilizing modern web technologies and cloud infrastructure for enhanced scalability and performance.

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Frontend Lead, Technical Coordinator
Technologien: 
ViteJS, VueJS, Typescript, Bootstrap, Pinia, Azure Cloud

Volkswagen AG
06/2023 - 10/2024	iProcess Digital Production Control
The Digital Production Platform (DPP) based on AWS services will soon connect all production-related areas in Volkswagen factories. The project's goal is to develop an application on a cloud platform (AWS) that will help factory employees achieve their production goals more efficiently.

In the first phase of the project called "i.Process," an analog process for recording production figures, defect counts, and times will be digitized. This will allow live and retrospective analysis of errors and the effectiveness of actions taken through a Business Intelligence tool.

The software utilizes IoT to connect the real machines in the factory with the system to get real-time data. This integration enables continuous monitoring and quick response to any issues, drastically improving the efficiency and accuracy of data collection.

Thanks to a skilled team from Digital Design and Engineering and the use of AWS services, a Proof of Concept was quickly created. This demonstrated that agile software development, software quality, and development speed can be combined. The product "i.Process" has consistently impressed in various presentations to the VW Wolfsburg factory management and the Volkswagen Group board and is still being developed.

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Technical Lead
Technologien: 
ReactJS, Typescript, GraphQL, AWS Cloud

Draeger
10/2021 - 06/2023	Rental Robot 3.0
The "Rental Robot" is a Rent & Return product from Dräger.

The automated cabinet makes it possible to provide the required work and safety materials flexibly on site (usually in industrial plants).

We use React and Typescript in the frontend, C# and DotNet in the backend, Microsoft Azure cloud services and a document-based CosmosDB.

Rental Robot 3.0 works through the interaction of the Dräger Rental Robots connected via the Azure IoT Hub with an IoT adapter and two web applications. One of the applications is used for administrative asset management and the other provides the interface for a renter to borrow these assets.

My role in this project goes from usual Backend development, creating features and fixing bugs, including connecting IoT devices with Azure and then with our backend, handling our database changes/migrations.
To also supporting in the Frontend and reacting on alerts generated on Production, talking with the PO and helping them with their inquiries.

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Fullstack Entwicklung, Lead Frontend Developer, 
Technologien: 
ReactJS, Typescript, C#, MongoDB, Azure Cloud, Kubernetes, Docker, CI/CD, Infrastructure as Code

KUKA Deutschland GmbH
	RoX Tool Development
KUKA is one of the world's leading providers of robotics and system technology and a pioneer in Industry 4.0. For the implementation of the "RoX" project, KUKA needed support in developing the current user interface. KUKA is developing an interface based on web technologies to control future products called "RoX HMI." The UI elements are based on the web framework VueJS, communication with the products' Linux-based control backend is done via the gRPC protocol, which is based on HTTP/2 and ProtoBuf. The standard components Vue Router for routing and VueX for state management are also used. For testing, the well-known frameworks Jest for unit tests and Cypress for end-to-end tests are employed.

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Frontend Development, Technical Consultant
Technologien: 
VueJS, VueX, TypeScript, gRPC, ProtoBuf, Jest, Cypress, Envoy Proxy, NodeJs, Lerna, Docker, Azure DevOps, Figma

Jochen Schweizer mydays Group GmbH
02/2020 - 07/2020	New Platform - Evelin Lightweight Shop
The goal of Evelin Lightweight is to integrate the two existing platforms of Jochen Schweizer and mydays, each with its own PIM, billing, and shop systems, into a single central platform. The aim is to harmonize the processes so that the different backend systems can be abstracted, and the approximately 9,000 providers can be targeted with their content and appropriate pricing on one or more clients.

JSMD has created a platform based on layers and events. The initial goal is to go live with the Jochen Schweizer shop as the first client on this new platform and replace the existing shop.

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Software Engineering, Technical Consulting, DevOps Engineering
Technologien: 
React, Express, NestJS, Symfony, Javascript, Typescript, NestJS, NodeJS, PHP7, Apache Kafka, PostgreSQL, Docker, Kubernetes, Helm, Jest, Jenkins, ElasticSearch 

Miele & Cie. KG
02/2017 - 01/2020	Miele Cloud Service
With the Miele Cloud Service, Miele aims to make its product range ready for the digital age.

The cloud allows various Miele devices (such as coffee machines, washing machines, refrigerators, ovens, etc.) to be remotely controlled through the cloud. This includes simple status checks of currently running programs, as well as starting and stopping programs on the devices.

For this digital transformation, Miele is gradually transitioning its devices from a ZigBee-based network infrastructure to an IP-WiFi-based infrastructure and is completely redeveloping the existing cloud services (currently at version 2.0).

Tätigkeit/Funktion: 
Development of the Voice User Interface
Technologien: 
Java 11, Dropwizard, PostgreSQL, Kafka, Kubernetes, AWS, Azure, Agiles Projektteam, Scrum


